# VTM  Option - DUAL D100
## Basics (VtM)
- First D100 is the skill/attribute to be rolled. Skill % + Att % = Target number, rolling under counts as a success.
	- [[Margins of success]] (where required) are equal to the difference between the 10s digit of the TN and the 10s digit of the number rolled.
- A second D10 is used for the Beast's [[Hunger]]. A roll of under the beast's [[Hunger]] + [[Rage]] means they influence your roll to some degree. See those pages for more in-detail mechanics.

## Opposed Rolls
Most rolls in this system are opposed rolls, but some will target a Margin of Success threshold if the GM specifies. When two opposed rolls are both successes, the character with the higher margin of success has "won" the contest.

When characters with two opposed rolls both fail, there's no effect. There are no margins of failure. Instead, a character is considered to have "fumbled" in some unlikely circumstances.

## Critical successes/failures:
There are no crits per say in this system, but rather the scaling MoS system for combat and other scenarios.

When a character rolls 01-05, this does not neccessarily massively amplify that particular roll (rather, look to MoS for this feedback) but instead provides a point of [[Momentum]]. Momentum is a unique currency which characters can use to shift the tide of a combat or encounter in their favor. Additionally, each point of momentum adds a stacking +5 situational bonus to all rolls.

## Rerolls
There are certain circumstances where players may wish to reroll dice because of bad luck, or a story beat which is super important to them. They may use some of their *stored momenteum* to reroll an ability. 