# Resolving Conflicts

## Basic Dicerolls
At its core, in Project Apocrypha, a dice roll consists of a D100. Other modules may add complexity, but all rolls boil down to rolling a D100, and assessing if the rolled number is *under* (a success) or *over* (a failure) the target number. 

## Difficulty Modifiers

There are functionally two, parallel systems in Project Apocrypha to determine how easy or difficult it is to succeed at a given task.

In highly-defined enviornments, such as ranged or melee combat, there are specific rules for bonuses and penalties. 

In less-defined enviornments, sometimes the GM will need to make a gut call on how easy or difficult something should be to succeed at. In these cases, flat modifiers are used.

-200: Impossible
-100: Herculean
-50: Very Hard
-40: Hard
-30: Difficult
-20: Challenging
-10: Annoying
0: Neutral
+10: Simple
+20: Natural
+30: Easy
+40: Very Easy
+50: Instinctive
+100: Trivial

In almost *all* situations, the modifiers should be kept between -50 and +50. Generally speaking, the Referee should not bother making a player roll at all when using bonuses approaching 50, as a player should at that point have nearly a 100% chance of succcess.

Negative modifiers are used far more often, to indicate doing something under stress, and these should be intuitively decided by the GM unless a codified system is pre-existing.


Example:
Gasket wants to hop a fence. Doing so requires [[101.03 Skills and Attributes#Athletics |Athletics]] + [[101.03 Skills and Attributes#Coordination|Coordination]] to succeed. The GM has decided this is a Challenging roll, so a -20 is applied.

Gasket’s Athletics (21) + Coordination (32) is 63 total, so he rolls a D100 looking to roll under. He rolls a 51, succeeding, allowing him to jump the fence.


## Margins of Success
In the case of some rolls, determining a Margin of Success is important. In many cases, a simple pass or fail is the only descrimination required, but in others, having some degree of granularity to determine who succeeded more, or how well a party succeeded or failed is helpful.

The default determinor for Margin of Success is `Target Number - Roll Amount / 10.` Practically, unless things are *very* close, this means that the Referee can simply take the difference in the 10s digit of the target number vs the rolled amount to determine marigins for success.

Margins of success are most often important in Opposed rolls, which will be discussed in the below portion. Referees may wish to use Margins of Success as “flavor indicators” to describe how a character succeeded or failed. In the previous example, a Referee may decide that as Gasket had 1 Margin of Success (63-51 = 12, or quickly calculating, 6(0)-5(0) = 1(0)) he made it over the fence without too much trouble, but didn’t sail gracefully over.

## Opposed Rolls
An opposed roll is any roll where one party intends to achieve an effect, while the other wishes to prevent it. This may include persuasion, initmidation, a punch, or a contest of wills.

In some cases (active vs passive), the *active* party will roll their ability or skill, and the passive party must resist the roll. In some cases, this will be resisted with a specific called out defensive profile, or it will be contested with the same roll as the *active* party’s diceroll.

In order for the *active* party to succeed, their roll must succeed, AND they must either beat the *passive* party’s margin of success, or the *passive* party must fail their roll. If both parties fail, nothing happens. 

For example:

Gasket, the *active* party attempts to force a crime boss’ goon to surrender. He rolls Manipulation + Intimidation (TN 34, + 30 because he’s pointing a gun at them), adding the two ratings for the skill and attribute together, and rolling his D100. 

The Initimidation skill calls out that the roll may be resisted with Resolve + Cognition (30), unless the target has a skill which applies. The *passive* party adds these two attributes together and rolls their D100.

Gasket rolls a 62, just barely rolling under his own TN, but the goon rolls a 2, rolling significantly under its TN of 30. The goon wins, meaning Gasket has not convinced them to surrender.
## Non-opposed Rolls

## Extended Rolls



# Modifiers