# Damage and Injury - For Characters and Important PCs

## Targets of Damage
Broadly speaking, there are two targets of damage - the Vitality pool, and Limbs. Limbs are harder to hit, but allow for degrading of a target’s capabilities far more quickly and easily than targeting their Vitality pool alone. Vitality is easier to attack directly, but the pool is larger.


## Vitality Pool
Vitality is the overall measure of a character’s health. In practice, this often means the ability of their nervous system to continue the control of their body. When a character is reduced to 0 vitality, they are typically incapacitated, and begin to bleed to death. 

PCs and important NPCs may make a Resolve + Endurance roll to continue functioning. Doing so allows them to continue taking actions, but they will suffer bleedout damage as normal. 

Any further damage taken from an exterior source (notably, NOT **Hemmorhage** damage) requires an additional save to continue taking actions. This save is Resolve + Endurance  - (Current Vitality Pool).

### Hemmorhage
When additional damage is taken in **Hemmorhage** begins to reduce the target’s Vitality below 0. At the end of each of their turns, the Character in this state’s vitality is applied to all limbs simultaneously. Any limb which is reduced to 0 as a result of this damage is considered crippled as per the usual rules, and when **Hemmorhage** damage is next applied, instead of applying damage to a 0-health limb, decrease vitality by 1/2 that amount further. 

A Character or NPC whose Vitality reaches -100% of max Vitality is instantly incapacitated. A character who reaches -200% in any state is dead.


### Calculating the Vitality Pool
The vitality pool is 10 + (END x 2) + RES. 
*ex.* 

## Limbs
In addition to the Vitality pool, the ‘health’ of some limbs are tracked. Limbs are either Vitals, or Extremities. 
## States of Limbs
Limbs can be Disabled, Maimed, or Destroyed. These states exist at 0, -100%, and -200%. 
- Disabled limbs create a -25% penalty to any action using that limb. All other actions are at -10 from the pain.
- Maimed limbs create a -50% penalty to any action using a limb, and entering this state may create injuries which are permanent to the character.
- Destroyed limbs are considered violently amputated, removed or otherwise destroyed. Any actions which require the use of this limb suffer a -100% penalty.
## Extremeties and Vitals.
Extremities are limbs which while important, are not vital (get it?) for life. In normal humans and similar creatures, the limbs are extremities, Torso a Vital, and the head a Critical Location.

#### Extremities
In extremities, a Toughness roll must be made whenever a limb becomes *maimed* to not become immediately incapacitated. Whenever a limb is destroyed, they must make the same save again (harder somehow, codify toughness roll?)

#### Vitals
When a vital location is disabled, the character must make a (END + RES) (make this harder somehow) roll to not be immediately killed. Vital locations are considered to be used in all actions for the purposes of calculating injury penalties.They must make a second roll to continue functioning. When a vital location is maimed, the character must make that roll again at a penalty. A destroyed vital location is immediately lethal.

These limbs are:
| Head | Torso  | L-Arm  | R-Arm  | L-Leg  | R-Leg |
| ---- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ----- |
|   1/4 VP   | 1/2 VP | 1/4 VP | 1/4 VP | 1/4 VP | 1/4 VP      |

An example spread with 20 RES and 20 END (Vitality pool of 70) looks like this:

| Head | Torso | L-Arm | R-Arm | L-Leg | R-Leg |
| ---- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| 18   | 35    | 18    | 18    | 18    | 18    | 

## Types of Damage
### Physical
Damage which damages the concrete form of an entity, such as bullets, knives, batons, and fists.
#### impact
Crushing damage inflicts full damage to limbs for the purpose of calculating wounds or incapacitation, but only 1/2 of the damage that gets through goes to the Target’s health pool.
#### Piercing
Piercing damage inflicts 1/2 damage for the purposes of crippling injuries (to limbs, and so on) but inflicts normal damage to the target’s health pool.
#### Crushing
Crushing damage inflicts full damage to both crippling limbs, and to the target’s overall health pool.
#### Special
Certain abilities may create effects such as “burning” “acidic" or “freezing” which modify status effects and damage delivered to the target. These all borrow the damage profile of either Impact, Piercing, or Crushing damage in terms of Health/Limb damage, and add additional effects.
### Stress
Damage which targets the mental state of a target. This may come from failing morale checks, from mental/psionic attacks, or otherwise

Players may willingly suffer Stress damage to create momentum in desperate situations. 

# Resistances

## Types of Resistances
### Armor

### Supernatural Resistances
