# Engagments and Threat

## Engagements

Engagements are one of the core systems of combat in Project Apocrypha. 

When referring to melee combat, characters are considered to be **Engaged** with each other as soon as one of them moves in to a space which any hostile character could strike with a weapon.

The engagement is said to continue until either all parties so engaged are incapacitated, all parties have left the engagement range, or both sides agree to terminate the engagement and cease hostile actions.

When referring to ranged combat, characters are considered to be engaged once one party is aiming or firing a weapon at another, and are engaged until one party is either incapacitated, leaves line of sight, or both sides terminate hostile actions. Aiming constitutes an initiation of an engagement. 


# Actions and Reactions
	
## Actions

Actions are AP expenditures which *must* take place on the turn of the character using them. They must be used proactively, and can never be used as a reaction.

### Universal Actions
##### Ready Attack
Threaten actions threaten an area around a character. With a firearm or ranged weapon, they ready themselves to shoot whoever enters the threatened area. The effect is similar with a melee weapon. This allows them to make whatever attack they want against a target, rather than being required to use a simple attack. A character must have the Action Potential remaining to Ready an attack, but needn't designate a target, or even execute the attack if they choose instead to take other Reactions.

### Attack Actions
#### Universal Attack Actions
#### Basic Ranged Attacks
Ranged attacks are made against a Target's Avoidance. These provoke a reaction if the defender is using a Ranged weapon, and also always provoke the reaction to dive out of the way, unless the defender is already on the ground.

##### Aim and Fire
*Aim and Fire* actions indicate the pulling of the trigger on a ranged attack with a firearm, or loosing of an attack with a bow. Aim and Fire attacks gain the benefit of the full accuracy of their weapon.

Speed = Weapon Ergonomics

##### Mount Weapon
This action indicates readying an attack for use, such as bringing a rifle to the shoulder, bringing a pistol up from waist level, or drawing a bowstring. Firearms remain mounted once done so unless the user breaks their stance by running or sprinting, or if rapid fire and recoil causes it to break.

Speed = Weapon Manueverability

##### Fire from the Hip
This action indicates firing a weapon “intuitively” without aiming, from the hip, or otherwise. The weapon does not gain the advantages of its Accuracy.

Speed = Weapon Manueverability.

#### Advanced Ranged Attacks

##### Called Shots

##### Autofire and bursts

#### Basic Melee Attack Actions

Melee attacks provoke a reaction from a the defender, which determines how the result is determined. If a defender can defend themselves, with their own weapon, or with their hands, they may roll a test opposed to the Melee attack. The party with the higher Margin of Success wins.

If the defender cannot defend themselves against the roll, the Target is protected by  Avoidance.

##### Feint
- Feints are attacks which are designed to trick a defender. Feint attacks are made at a penalty and are not necessarily obvious to the defender as a feint. When successful, feints normal attack, which has limited damage, but increase the difficulty of an opponents counterattack, providing bonus damage. As opposed to the Desperate Parry option in response to a counterattack, Feints allow, in essence, counter-attacking of counter-attacks.
##### Attack

### Defensive Actions
Some actions may be taken to pre-empt incoming attacks. Such actions must be taken on a player's turn. Some of these actions must be unlocked.

#### Defensive Stance: 
Sacrifices attacks for the remainder of the turn in order to increase defenses.

#### Riposte: 
Leaves open a venue of attack which can be used to deliver a prepared attack against an enemy.

While a defender cannot by default roll a test against Ranged attacks to confront them in the same way as a melee attack, generally, they can increase their Avoidance Rating by increasing their speed, or reducing their exposure. 

Moving to a sprint, or taking cover can both increase a character's Avoidance Rating. These are generally things that must be done on a character's turn.

## Reactions

Reactions are taken off-turn, in response to being targeted by an attack. They still require the expenditure of AP to use.

### Ranged Reactions
Reactions to Ranged attacks are limited, unless granted by a specific power.

These powers often allow a defender to make a defense test against a skill, rather than their Avoidance Rating.

#### Charge Defense
- When subject to a Charge melee attack, the defender may take a Ranged attack of their choice against the target. The attacker's charge will carry through unless they are stopped outright by the retaliation, and they suffer a dependent on the movement speed of the charging party.

#### Counterfire
- When subject to a Ranged attack by another Ranged attacker, if the Defender is capable of returning fire, they may try to do so at a penalty. Both the Attacker and Defender may roll against each other's Avoidance Ratings, rolling for injury if it takes place. 

#### Target in the Open
- When a hostile target moves in the open, outside of cover, and not blocked by any obstacles or obstructions, a Ranged weapon user may make an attack against that target at a penalty.

### Melee Reactions
Reactions to Melee attacks are triggered by an incoming melee attack. 

#### Counter-attack
Attempting to turn the tables on their opponent, the counter-attacker defeats the incoming blow and strikes their opponent. Multiple counter-attacks in a single turn suffer a cumulative penalty of WEAPON SIZE. (Or flat?)
**Value Proposition:** Increase in defense difficulty, but the success might provide damage.
#### Parry
Focusing on defense against incoming attack. Successful defense blocks the attack, but defenders who are using a smaller weapon than their attacker must soak Shock damage equal to the size difference. Multiple parries in a single turn suffer a cumulative penalty.
- **Value Prop:** Allows for massive reduction in incoming damage, at a cost. 

#### Exploit Opening
When given the opportunity (such as someone fleeing from an Engagement) the reacting character may make an attack at a penalty which stacks with the other Melee reaction penalties.
#### Desperate Parry
Those who have been counter-attacked may attempt a Desperate Parry, involving one more roll at double difficulty to defend against the counter. A failure inflicts Shock damage as per a parry, as well as the damage that would be suffered from the Counterattack.

### Universal Reactions
Universal reactions may be used in any situation when a defender is aware of the incoming attack.

#### Desperate Dodge
The character dives out of the way of an incoming attack, ending up prone up to base movement meters away. They avoid the targeted attack, but must deal with the consequences of being prone.

#### Damage Soak
Only enabled by certain abilities, rather than attempt to get out of the way, a player attempts to take the hit straight on their armor, allowing them to potentially change the hit location to one which is more favorable.

## The Flow of Combat (Initiative and AP)

### Initiative

Action Potential indicates the time events take place. Higher Action Potential is almost always better. Initiative is determined by rolling 2d10, and adding it to the player's Initiative Rating, calculated by taking ACU/10 + VOL/10+ 3 and adding situational modifiers.

Players may take actions, spending Action Potential until they are interrupted by the next highest person in Initiative Order. Players can always take at LEAST their Initiative Rating worth of actions before being interrupted.

### Movement
All entities do not *expend* action potential to move. Rather, they expend action potential to change speeds, and then proceed at that speed as they take other actions (if desired). Changing a level of movement rate (from walking -> running, or running -> sprinting) always costs 2 Action Potential. 

Characters' total movement is dictated by their CRD/10 (minimum 2). They will move that number of meters per ticks of Action Potential spent *walking*. 

Running doubles this speed, and sprinting triples it. 

This means that for an average, unathletic person (15-20 CRD) they will walk 2m/s, run 4m/s, and sprint at 6m/s.

Professional athletes might(30-40 CRD) can achieve speeds significantly greater, walking at 3-4m/s, running at 6-8 m/s, and sprinting at 10-12 m/s, with the top end signifying the limits of human achievement.

